OEP for frontend dependency upgrade (#513)
openedx/open-edx-proposals: oeps/best-practices/oep-0065-bp-frontend-dependencies.rst

.. _adr_based_template:

.. Below is the display in the left sidebar on RTD. Please omit leading 0's

OEP-0065: Frontend Dependencies Update
######################################

.. This OEP template is based on Nygard's Architecture Decision Records.

.. list-table::
   :widths: 25 75

   * - OEP
     - Link to the doc in the following format::

        :doc:`OEP-XXXX <oep-XXXX-YYYY-ZZZZ>`

        * <XXXX is the next available OEP number>
        * <YYYY is the abbreviated Type: proc | bp | arch>
        * <ZZZZ is a brief (< 5 words) version of the title>

   * - Title
     - Frontend Dependencies Update
   * - Last Modified
     - 2023-07-17
   * - Authors
     - Muhammmad Abdullah Waheed <mawkhan@2u.com>
   * - Arbiter
     - <Arbiter's real name and email address>
   * - Status
     - Draft
   * - Type
     - Best Practice
   * - Created
     - 2023-07-17
   * - Review Period
     - <start - target end dates for review>

Abstract
********

> Proposes best practices for maintaining dependencies on Javscript repositories of Open edX

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Proposes best practices for maintaining dependencies on Javascript repositories of Open edX
```

Context
*******

> Openedx mico-frontends(MFEs) use javascript. We maintain these repositoriesusing  To upgrade its dependencies through package.json, we can either use `^` or `~` operators to automatically upgrade major and patch versions respectively. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Openedx micro-frontends(MFEs) use javascript.  We maintain these repositories using Webpack.  To upgrade its dependencies through package.json, we can either use `^` or `~` operators to automatically upgrade major and patch versions respectively. 
```

We can set up daily, weekly, or monthly update checks, depending on your development cycle and risk tolerance.

Automated Testing
-----------------
Set up automated tests using continuous integration (CI) tools to run on Renovate Bot's pull requests. 
This ensures that dependency updates don't introduce any breaking changes or issues.

Use Grouping
------------
Renovate Bot can group multiple dependency updates into a single pull request to avoid overwhelming your repository with a large number of pull requests.

Override Dependencies
---------------------
If you have specific requirements or need to stick to a particular version of a dependency, you can use the packageRules configuration in renovate.json to override how Renovate Bot updates specific packages.

Ignore Dependencies
-------------------
In some cases, you may want to exclude certain dependencies from being updated automatically. Use the ignoreDeps configuration in renovate.json to specify packages that Renovate Bot should not update.

Documentation
-------------
Renovate Bot PRs have very good documentation of changes with proper linking.

Best Practices
**************

> We can configure Renovate Bot in our repositories by introducing `renovate.json` file. Here are some best practices we can follow to 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We can configure Renovate Bot in our repositories by introducing `renovate.json` file. Here are some best practices on how to configure it.
```

We can enforce our repos to use basic configurations like schedule, automerging, rebasingStalePrs. 
In addition to that, we can also add package specific rules. For example

.. code-block::

  {
    "extends": [
      "config:base",
      "schedule:weekly",
      ":automergeLinters",
      ":automergeMinor",
      ":automergeTesters",
      ":enableVulnerabilityAlerts",
      ":rebaseStalePrs",
      ":semanticCommits",
      ":updateNotScheduled"
    ],
    "packageRules": [
      {
        "matchDepTypes": [
          "devDependencies"
        ],
        "matchUpdateTypes": [
          "lockFileMaintenance",
          "minor",
          "patch",
          "pin"
        ],
        "automerge": true
      },
      {

>         "matchPackagePatterns": ["@edx"],

Reviewer: Soon we'll also have "`@openedx`", so I figure we might as well add it to the list!

        "matchUpdateTypes": ["minor", "patch"],
        "automerge": true
      }
    ],
    "timezone": "America/New_York"
  }

We can set schedule of whole Renovate Bot or we can set independent schedules.

> We can also set the automerge rules to be satisfy. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We can also set the automerge rules to be satisfied. 
```
